Manage measurement family (#528)
akeneo/pim-helpcenter: content/md/what-is/what-about-measurements.md

---
id: what-about-measurements
themes: first-steps
title: What about **measurements**?
popular: false
ee-only: false
related: manage-your-measurements, manage-your-attributes
---

# Introduction to the measurements

> If you want to **store your product information with measurement**, i.e. weight, length or frequency inside your PIM, you will need [measurement families](#what-is-a-measurement-family) .

Author: ```suggestion
If you want to **store your product information with measurement**, e.g. weight, length or frequency inside your PIM, you will need [measurement families](#what-is-a-measurement-family) .
```

> If you want to **store your product information with measurement**, i.e. weight, length or frequency inside your PIM, you will need [measurement families](#what-is-a-measurement-family) .

Author: yes

> The measurements will be really helpful when you are exporting products for a given channel and you want these measurement attributes to be converted into the units you set in the [given channel](manage-your-channels.html#create-a-channel).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The measurements will be really helpful when you are exporting products for a given channel and you want these measurement attributes to be converted to the units you set in the [given channel](manage-your-channels.html#create-a-channel).
```

> A measurement attribute is a single-line field with a first field containing a quantity and a second one containing a measurement unit.

Author: ```suggestion
A measurement attribute is a single-line field with a first field containing a value and a second one containing a measurement unit.
```

> A measurement attribute is a single-line field composed of a first field containing a quantity and a second field containing a measurement unit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A measurement attribute is a single-line field with a first field containing a quantity and a second one containing a measurement unit.
```

> Below is an example of a `Weight` [measurement attribute](manage-your-attributes.html#create-an-attribute) with a quantity of `533` for the `Gram` unit.

Author: ```suggestion
Below is an example of a `Weight` [measurement attribute](manage-your-attributes.html#create-an-attribute) with a value of `533` for the `Gram` unit.
```

![Example of a measurement attribute](../img/Settings_Measurement_Attribute.png)

# What is a measurement family?

> A measurement family is used to gather the units concerning the same product measurement, i.e. a weight, a length, a frequency, etc.

Author: ```suggestion
A measurement family is used to gather the units concerning the same product measurement, e.g. a weight, a length, a frequency, etc.
```

> A measurement family is used to gather the units concerning the same kind of quantity for a product measurement, i.e. a weight, a length, a frequency, etc.

Author: ```suggestion
A measurement family is used to gather the units concerning the same kind of value for a product measurement, i.e. a weight, a length, a frequency, etc.
```

> A measurement family is used to group the units concerning the same kind of quantity for a product measurement, i.e. a weight, a length, a frequency, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A measurement family is used to gather the units concerning the same kind of quantity for a product measurement, i.e. a weight, a length, a frequency, etc.
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure about the word 'quantity' here...

> For example, the `Weight` measurement family allows you to store the weight of products in grams, kilograms, livres, pounds, etc.

Reviewer: 'Livres' is a French word! You could use ounce instead?

Author: OK

> For example, the `Weight` measurement family allows you to store the weight of products in grams, kilograms, livres, pounds, etc.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, the `Weight` measurement family allows you to store the weight of products in grams, kilograms, ounces, pounds, etc.
```

# What about the measurement units?

For each measurement family, **a unit is defined as standard and used to convert the other units**.

For example, for the `Weight` measurement family, `Kilogram` is the standard unit to convert all the other weight units.

> To convert a unit into the standard unit you have to define one or several conversion operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To convert a unit to the standard unit you have to define one or several conversion operations.
```

# Let's create your first measurements!

> In `Settings` menu, there is a dedicated `Measurements` entry where you can list all the existing measurement families, create your own measurement families with their units or add units to the existing measurement families.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the`Settings` menu, there is a dedicated `Measurements` entry where you can list all the existing measurement families, create your own measurement families with their units or add units to the existing measurement families.
```

Then you will be able to add `Measurement` attributes, enrich your products with measurement data and convert them during product exports.

Let's go!

> 1. [List the existing measurement families with their units](manage-your-measurements.html#see-all-your-measurement-families)

Author: Yes
